# Fortune-500 Performance Analysis
Objective of the project was 3 fold as below:
Part 1 - to find relationship among variables describing F500 companies and their performance 
Part 2 - Understand the focus areas of analytics and innovation among F500 companies
Part 3 - Understand if some types of firms historically do better or worse when presidential candidates from certain political parties are elected president? Predict which firms from the list might be impacted in 2016 presidential elections and what they might do in preparation for possible scenarios. 

Data
- Compustat data on F500 companies
- 

Inferences
On analyzing the descriptive statistics for F500 companies, we found that revenue of FS firms on an average is higher than INDL firms. Money spent on the employees is related to the total revenue of the firm linearly and in the same direction, whereas money spent in R & D seemed to have no such effect. CSR parameters were grouped into 5 groups - Economic, Environmental, Ethical, Legal and Philanthropic and a unified score on a scale of 5 was calculated. Average CSR score of F500 firms is 2.3. It was inferred that higher the rank of a firm, higher is its CSR score.
Total number of patents for F500 companies from 2000 to 2015 came to 350065, on an average 700 patents per F500 company. Top 3 companies based on patent count are IBM, Microsoft and Intel. Among industries, Electronic and Electrical components top patent count. Overall, for patents we didn’t find a meaningful relation with revenue, but it showed significant results for certain industries. Topic analysis of patent title revealed focus innovation areas among F500 companies as digitization and drilling.
From topic analysis carried out on Annual reports for analytics, it was inferred that Financial management, Risk management and Healthcare are the leading focus areas for analytics. Sentiment analysis using Alchemy API showed a positive sentiment on analytics among F500 companies. A significant relation was found between presence of a company in analytics and its revenue, in general companies with presence in analytics had higher revenue.
We found certain industries getting impacted positively for each of Democrats and Republicans, when they come to power. For democrats the industries that see positive impact are Tobacco Products, Building Materials – Hardware - Garden Supply - Mobile Home Dealers, General Merchandise Stores, Depository Institutions and Insurance Carriers, while for Republican it is the Non-classifiable industry that consists of conglomerates mainly. Our recommendation to these industries for preparatory tasks before the elections: Upgrade production capability to meet the demand generated by increased investment in infrastructure to the building material industry, launch new products to leverage the new financial norms to the depository institutions and insurance carriers; plan new product launches, patent grants and understand changing trade norms to tobacco industry; and run promotional campaign and understand possible change in outsourcing norms and their impact to the general merchandising industry.
